SRC/DEV_DOCS/MM_Userdata_Structure.md, before:

# MM Userdata structure for LTM's Murder Mystery `1.0`

This document describes the structure of the MM data

## Table of contents
- [player_t.mm](#player_tmm)
- [MT_SHREMD](#mt_shremd)
- [Global <code>MM</code> table](#the-core-mm-table)

### player_t.mm

MM userdata related to the player. In the examples below, <code>p</code> is used as the name of the <code>player_t</code> variable. **An access to the MM-related variable <code>var</code> of <code>player_t</code> is written as <code>p.mm.var</code>**.

| Name | Type | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| **role** | *int*, one of the <code>ROLE_*</code> constants | Specifies the player's current role in the game. See the [documentation](./MM_Func&Const_List.md#constants) for the details on the constants for this variable. |
| **kills** | *int* | The number of kills the player has made. In **PONG** 2-player minigame this variable acts as the score per-player. |
| **killername** | *string* | The name of the player who killed player <code>p</code>.<br>***Note:*** The code has a special exception for the killer player's name set as `"your stupidity"` as it sometimes is used to identify the players who died by the map hazard (crusher, pit, drowned in water, etc.). This name will be also translated on HUD. |
| **lang** | *string* | The player's currently set language. Translates all the game messages and HUD-related text into the specified language. For example, <code>p.mm.lang = "EN"</code> will set the player's language to English. |
| **weapondelay** | *tic_t* | It is very similar to the <code>p.weapondelay</code>, but this one (<code>p.mm.weapondelay</code>) is used for the MM recreation of the weapons since the vanilla variable is always set to 0 to prevent the vanilla weapons from firing. |
| **sneak** | *boolean* | This variable tells whether or not the player is currently sneaking. While sneaking, the player makes no footstep sounds and leaves no footmarks on the ground. |
| **afk** | *tic_t* | The player's AFK timer. Depending on the value of the `mm_afk` Console Variable, it is used to calculate and kick the innactive players. |
| **camping** | *tic_t* | "Camping timer" for players with the **Murderer** role. Depending on the value of the `mm_camping` Console Variable, it is used to kick players with <code>p.mm.role == ROLE_MURDERER</code> who are sitting near the dropped *Sheriff's Emerald* for longer than 30 seconds. |
| **chatdelay** | *tic_t* | The player's delay timer which controls the time interval the player must wait before sending another message. |
| **shremd_dist** | *fixed_t* | The distance to the closest dropped *Sheriff's Emerald*. It is calcualted only for the **Murderers** (for calculating <code>p.mm.camping</code>) and **Innocents**. (for Emerald Radar). |
| **hud** | *userdata table* | The table with the player's HUD related data: <table><tr><th>Name</th><th>Type</th><th>Description</th></tr><tr><td>**fx_translucency**</td><td>*int*</td><td>The translucency of the fullscreen flash/spark effect. The effect is inactive when the value is set to 0 or >=10.</td></tr><tr><td>**fx_duration**</td><td>*int*</td><td>The duration of the effect's frame. It should be noted that the formula for calculating the progression of the effect frame looks like<br><code>if (not (leveltime & p.mm.fx_duration)) then p.mm.fx_translucency = $ + 1 end</code><br> which means the <code>p.mm.fx_duration</code> can only represent the amount of frames as `(2^n) - 1`.</td></tr><tr><td>**fx_color**</td><td>*int*</td><td>The SRB2's pallet color used for the effect.</td></tr><tr><td>**roleflicker**</td><td>*tic_t*</td><td>The amount of time (in tics) the role label on HUD should flicker.</td></tr></table> |
| **timetravel** | *userdata table* | The table with the player's Time Travel related data: <table><tr><th>Name</th><th>Type</th><th>Description</th></tr><tr><td>**timezone**</td><td>*int*, one of the <code>TIMEZONE_*</code>* constants</td><td>The time zone the player is currently in. For maps that do not utilize the time travel mechanic the value of this variable will always be <code>TIMEZONE_PRESENT</code>. See [the documentation](./MM_Func&Const_List.md#constants) for the details on the constants for this variable.</td></tr><tr><td>**timesign**</td><td>*int*, one of the <code>TWS_*</code>* constants</td><td>The time warp sign (Past/Future sign) the player is currently holding. This variable is set back to <code>TWS_NONE</code> when the player succesfully warps into another time zone or has failed to keep enough speed for the warp. See [the documentation](./MM_Func&Const_List.md#constants) for the details on the constants for this variable.</td></tr><tr><td>**warptimer**</td><td>*tic_t*</td><td>The amount of time (in tics) player is in the warping state.</td></tr></table> |
| **help** | *userdata table* | The table with the player's GUI manual related data: <table><tr><th>Name</th><th>Type</th><th>Description</th></tr><tr><td>**active**</td><td>*boolean*</td><td>Tells whether or not the help manual is activated at the moment. It can be activated by the player by activating the `mmhelp` Console Command.</td></tr><tr><td>**buffer**</td><td>*boolean*</td><td>The text buffer storing the text (formated in MM string format) for the Video Renderer</td></tr><tr><td>**page**</td><td>*int*</td><td>The number of the manual page the player is currently looking at.</td></tr><tr><td>**pos**</td><td>*int*</td><td>The current possition on the page.</td></tr></table> |

### <code>MT_SHREMD</code>
The userdata of the dropped Sheriff Emerald's object (<code>MT_SHREMD</code>)

| Name | Type | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| **x** | *fixed_t* | The Emerald's X possition |
| **y** | *fixed_t* | The Emerald's Y possition |
| **z** | *fixed_t* | The Emerald's Z possition |
| **timezone** | *int*, one of the <code>TIMEZONE_*</code> constants | The timezone the emerald is dropped in |

### The core `MM` table

The description of each value in the `MM` table. The `MM` constant itself is defined in [INIT.LUA](../INIT.LUA)

| Name | Type | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| <code>**version**</code> | *string* | Version number of the add-on. |
| <code>**debug**</code> | *boolean* | Enable/Disable the add-on's *Debug Mode* functionality<br>*Note:* **The add-on must boot with this variable set to <code>true</code> to use the Debug in any form.** |
| <code>**builddate**</code> | *string* | The build date of the add-on. |
| <code>**text**</code> | *table* | Collection of all text used in **Murder Mystery** with all translations. This variable is **netsynced**. See the [source code](../LUA/) for details. |
| <code>**RoleColor**</code> | *string[5]* | The vanilla text colors for roles, use one of the <code>ROLE_*</code> constants as index to get the color for the specified role. For the dead player color access <code>MM.RoleColor[5]</code>.|
| <code>**RoleColorHUD**</code> | *string[5]* | The MM text colors for roles, use one of the <code>ROLE_*</code> constants as index to get the color for the specified role. For the dead player color access <code>MM.RoleColorHUD[5]</code>. |
| <code>**hud**</code> | *table* | HUD control variables for each sub-renderer (<code>MM.hud.game</code>, <code>MM.hud.scores</code>, <code>MM.hud.intermission</code>). Each sub-renderer has two attributes: <code>**enabled**</code> (custom scripts can disable MM's HUD renderers by setting this to <code>false</code>) and <code>pos</code> (coordinates of the different HUD elements). |
| <code>**weaponconfig**</code> | *int[4]* | Table to contain the Weapon Configurations. Updated by the `mm_wepconfig` CVAR. See [MM_WEPCONFIG.PNG](MM_WEPCONFIG.PNG) and [INIT.LUA](../INIT.LUA) for details. |
| <code>**death_sfx**</code> | *int[]* | Table containing all Sound Effects (<code>sfx_*</code> lumps) that are used as the death sounds/jingles. |
| <code>**shwdwn_music**</code> | *string[]* | The 6-character strings of the music track names that are used as Showndown Duel themes. Tracks from this list are being randomly selected by <code>MM_StartShowdownMusic()(</code>) function if the map does not have its own Showdown Theme specified with <code>Lua.ShowdownTrack</code> in SOC. |
| <code>**shwdwn**</code> | *string* | The 6-character name of the current Showdown Duel track playing, also marks if the Duel is happening right now or not. |
| <code>**susnce**</code> | *string* | The 6-character name of the current Suspense track playing. |
| <code>**winner**</code> | *int* | The winner of the round, can be one of the 3 possible values: *0* - Tie, *1* - Murderer, *2* - Civilians (Sheriffs, Heros and Innocents). This variable is **netsynced**. |
| <code>**winreason**</code> | *int* | The win reason, can be one of the <code>WIN_*</code> constants. This variable is **netsynced**. |
| <code>**timelimit**</code> | *int* | Works just like SRB2's vanilla `timelimit` but MM uses its own. The value is measured in Minutes. This variable is **netsynced**. |
| <code>**shremds**</code> | *mobj_t[]* | The table containing all dropped *Sheriff Emerald* objects (<code>MT_SHREMD</code>). |
| <code>**pong**</code> | *table* | Variables for Pong 2-player minigame. This variable is **netsynced**. See [INIT.LUA](../INIT.LUA) and [LUA/MINIGAMES/MINIGAMES.LUA](../LUA/MINIGAMES/MINIGAMES.LUA) for details. |
| <code>**MM.AddLang**(*string* index, *table* lang)</code> | *function* | Add a translation into MM. <code>index</code> is usually a 2 or 3 characters long name of the language. For example `"EN"` shows that the language is English. <code>table</code> is the translation data itself. The format of the <code>table</code> can be found [here](../LUA/TEXT/EN.LUA).<br>*Note:* Index should be all characters **UPPERCASE** otherwise it won't be accesible! |

# That's all folks!

Commit message:

Optimize the (Video) Memory usage with Character Sets
Instead of loading all available character sets into the (video) memory, MM now loads only one character set at a time, and when another set is needed, it simply swaps them in the memory. Because of this change, the rendering functions now have fewer instructions to execute which should also increase the HUD rendering performance. Some gaps in the functions and userdata documentation were also filled.

SRC/DEV_DOCS/MM_Userdata_Structure.md, after:

# MM Userdata structure for LTM's Murder Mystery `1.0`

This document describes the structure of the MM data

## Table of contents
- [player_t.mm](#player_tmm)
- [MT_SHREMD](#mt_shremd)
- [Global <code>MM</code> table](#the-core-mm-table)

### player_t.mm

MM userdata related to the player. In the examples below, <code>p</code> is used as the name of the <code>player_t</code> variable. **An access to the MM-related variable <code>var</code> of <code>player_t</code> is written as <code>p.mm.var</code>**.

| Name | Type | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| **role** | *int*, one of the <code>ROLE_*</code> constants | Specifies the player's current role in the game. See the [documentation](./MM_Func&Const_List.md#constants) for the details on the constants for this variable. |
| **kills** | *int* | The number of kills the player has made. In **PONG** 2-player minigame this variable acts as the score per-player. |
| **killername** | *string* | The name of the player who killed player <code>p</code>.<br>***Note:*** The code has a special exception for the killer player's name set as `"your stupidity"` as it sometimes is used to identify the players who died by the map hazard (crusher, pit, drowned in water, etc.). This name will be also translated on HUD. |
| **lang** | *string* | The player's currently set language. Translates all the game messages and HUD-related text into the specified language. For example, <code>p.mm.lang = "EN"</code> will set the player's language to English. |
| **weapondelay** | *tic_t* | It is very similar to the <code>p.weapondelay</code>, but this one (<code>p.mm.weapondelay</code>) is used for the MM recreation of the weapons since the vanilla variable is always set to 0 to prevent the vanilla weapons from firing. |
| **sneak** | *boolean* | This variable tells whether or not the player is currently sneaking. While sneaking, the player makes no footstep sounds and leaves no footmarks on the ground. |
| **afk** | *tic_t* | The player's AFK timer. Depending on the value of the `mm_afk` Console Variable, it is used to calculate and kick the innactive players. |
| **camping** | *tic_t* | "Camping timer" for players with the **Murderer** role. Depending on the value of the `mm_camping` Console Variable, it is used to kick players with <code>p.mm.role == ROLE_MURDERER</code> who are sitting near the dropped *Sheriff's Emerald* for longer than 30 seconds. |
| **chatdelay** | *tic_t* | The player's delay timer which controls the time interval the player must wait before sending another message. |
| **shremd_dist** | *fixed_t* | The distance to the closest dropped *Sheriff's Emerald*. It is calcualted only for the **Murderers** (for calculating <code>p.mm.camping</code>) and **Innocents**. (for Emerald Radar). |
| **hud** | *userdata table* | The table with the player's HUD related data: <table><tr><th>Name</th><th>Type</th><th>Description</th></tr><tr><td>**fx_translucency**</td><td>*int*</td><td>The translucency of the fullscreen flash/spark effect. The effect is inactive when the value is set to 0 or >=10.</td></tr><tr><td>**fx_duration**</td><td>*int*</td><td>The duration of the effect's animation frame. </td></tr><tr><td>**fx_color**</td><td>*int*</td><td>The SRB2's pallet color used for the effect.</td></tr><tr><td>**roleflicker**</td><td>*tic_t*</td><td>The amount of time (in tics) the role label on HUD should flicker.</td></tr></table> |
| **timetravel** | *userdata table* | The table with the player's Time Travel related data: <table><tr><th>Name</th><th>Type</th><th>Description</th></tr><tr><td>**timezone**</td><td>*int*, one of the <code>TIMEZONE_*</code>* constants</td><td>The time zone the player is currently in. For maps that do not utilize the time travel mechanic the value of this variable will always be <code>TIMEZONE_PRESENT</code>. See [the documentation](./MM_Func&Const_List.md#constants) for the details on the constants for this variable.</td></tr><tr><td>**timesign**</td><td>*int*, one of the <code>TWS_*</code>* constants</td><td>The time warp sign (Past/Future sign) the player is currently holding. This variable is set back to <code>TWS_NONE</code> when the player succesfully warps into another time zone or has failed to keep enough speed for the warp. See [the documentation](./MM_Func&Const_List.md#constants) for the details on the constants for this variable.</td></tr><tr><td>**warptimer**</td><td>*tic_t*</td><td>The amount of time (in tics) player is in the warping state.</td></tr></table> |
| **help** | *userdata table* | The table with the player's GUI manual related data: <table><tr><th>Name</th><th>Type</th><th>Description</th></tr><tr><td>**active**</td><td>*boolean*</td><td>Tells whether or not the help manual is activated at the moment. It can be activated by the player by activating the `mmhelp` Console Command.</td></tr><tr><td>**buffer**</td><td>*boolean*</td><td>The text buffer storing the text (formated in MM string format) for the Video Renderer</td></tr><tr><td>**page**</td><td>*int*</td><td>The number of the manual page the player is currently looking at.</td></tr><tr><td>**pos**</td><td>*int*</td><td>The current possition on the page.</td></tr></table> |

### <code>MT_SHREMD</code>
The userdata of the dropped Sheriff Emerald's object (<code>MT_SHREMD</code>)

| Name | Type | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| **x** | *fixed_t* | The Emerald's X possition |
| **y** | *fixed_t* | The Emerald's Y possition |
| **z** | *fixed_t* | The Emerald's Z possition |
| **timezone** | *int*, one of the <code>TIMEZONE_*</code> constants | The timezone the emerald is dropped in |

### The core `MM` table

The description of each value in the `MM` table. The `MM` constant itself is defined in [INIT.LUA](../INIT.LUA)

| Name | Type | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| <code>**version**</code> | *string* | Version number of the add-on. |
| <code>**debug**</code> | *boolean* | Enable/Disable the add-on's *Debug Mode* functionality<br>*Note:* **The add-on must boot with this variable set to <code>true</code> to use the Debug in any form.** |
| <code>**builddate**</code> | *string* | The build date of the add-on. |
| <code>**text**</code> | *table* | Collection of all text used in **Murder Mystery** with all translations. This variable is **netsynced**. See the [source code](../LUA/) for details. |
| <code>**RoleColor**</code> | *string[5]* | The vanilla text colors for roles, use one of the <code>ROLE_*</code> constants as index to get the color for the specified role. For the dead player color access <code>MM.RoleColor[5]</code>.|
| <code>**RoleColorHUD**</code> | *string[5]* | The MM text colors for roles, use one of the <code>ROLE_*</code> constants as index to get the color for the specified role. For the dead player color access <code>MM.RoleColorHUD[5]</code>. |
| <code>**hud**</code> | *table* | HUD control variables for each sub-renderer (<code>MM.hud.game</code>, <code>MM.hud.scores</code>, <code>MM.hud.intermission</code>). Each sub-renderer has two attributes: <code>**enabled**</code> (custom scripts can disable MM's HUD renderers by setting this to <code>false</code>) and <code>pos</code> (coordinates of the different HUD elements). |
| <code>**graphics**</code> | *patch_t* | Table acting as the Video RAM that holds all loaded (cached) patches. Patches cane be loaded into this table with <code>V_LoadPatch()</code> before rendering them and unloaded with <code>V_UnloadPatch()</code> when they are not longer needed. Access the patches in this table by their name (ex. <code>MM.graphics["CHAOS3"]</code>). |
| <code>**graphics.charset**</code> | *patch_t[256]* | A sub-table dedicated to storing the character patches. The character set can be loaded into this table with <code>V_LoadCharset()</code> and unloaded with <code>V_ClearCharset()</code> (See the [Functions and Constants list](./MM_Func&Const_List.md) for details on using this function).<br>*Note*: Slots `0`-`31` are reserved for control characters (chars `16`-`31` are used for color) and cannot be occupied. |
| <code>**graphics.pixel**</code> | *patch_t[256]* | A sub-table dedicated to storing the pixel patches which can be used for various purpouses. In MM, they are used to create fullscreen flash/spark effects and transparent background for the `MMHELP` Console Command. The patches stored in this table are 1x1 graphics, each pointing to a specific color in SRB2's palette. |
| <code>**CharsetStandardReady**</code> | *boolean* | Is the Standard ASCII part (characters `33-127`) of the Character (Video) Memory loaded and ready to be used? If not, the HUD code will try to load the `"STCFN"`character set. |
| <code>**CharsetExtendedReady**</code> | *boolean* | Is the Extended ASCII part (characters `128-255`) of the Character (Video) Memory loaded and ready to be used? If not, the HUD code will try to load the character set specified in the <code>CHARSET</code> entry of the Language File,  by the player's chosen language (<code>player.mm.lang</code>). |
| <code>**weaponconfig**</code> | *int[4]* | Table to contain the Weapon Configurations. Updated by the `mm_wepconfig` CVAR. See [MM_WEPCONFIG.PNG](MM_WEPCONFIG.PNG) and [INIT.LUA](../INIT.LUA) for details. |
| <code>**death_sfx**</code> | *int[]* | Table containing all Sound Effects (<code>sfx_*</code> lumps) that are used as the death sounds/jingles. |
| <code>**shwdwn_music**</code> | *string[]* | The 6-character strings of the music track names that are used as Showndown Duel themes. Tracks from this list are being randomly selected by <code>MM_StartShowdownMusic()(</code>) function if the map does not have its own Showdown Theme specified with <code>Lua.ShowdownTrack</code> in SOC. |
| <code>**shwdwn**</code> | *string* | The 6-character name of the current Showdown Duel track playing, also marks if the Duel is happening right now or not. |
| <code>**susnce**</code> | *string* | The 6-character name of the current Suspense track playing. |
| <code>**winner**</code> | *int* | The winner of the round, can be one of the 3 possible values: *0* - Tie, *1* - Murderer, *2* - Civilians (Sheriffs, Heros and Innocents). This variable is **netsynced**. |
| <code>**winreason**</code> | *int* | The win reason, can be one of the <code>WIN_*</code> constants. This variable is **netsynced**. |
| <code>**timelimit**</code> | *int* | Works just like SRB2's vanilla `timelimit` but MM uses its own. The value is measured in Minutes. This variable is **netsynced**. |
| <code>**shremds**</code> | *mobj_t[]* | The table containing all dropped *Sheriff Emerald* objects (<code>MT_SHREMD</code>). |
| <code>**pong**</code> | *table* | Variables for Pong 2-player minigame. This variable is **netsynced**. See [INIT.LUA](../INIT.LUA) and [LUA/MINIGAMES/MINIGAMES.LUA](../LUA/MINIGAMES/MINIGAMES.LUA) for details. |
| <code>**MM.AddLang**(*string* index, *table* lang)</code> | *function* | Add a translation into MM. <code>index</code> is usually a 2 or 3 characters long name of the language. For example `"EN"` shows that the language is English. <code>table</code> is the translation data itself. The format of the <code>table</code> can be found [here](../LUA/TEXT/EN.LUA).<br>*Note:* Index should be all characters **UPPERCASE** otherwise it won't be accesible! |

# That's all folks!
